how to grow and scale to a seven figure
B2B company the secrets from a seven
figure bootstrap
[Music]
founder welcome back to a fresh episode
of Breaking
bb.com I'm your host Sam Dunning and if
you haven't yet why not join thousands
of Legends enjoying my weekday
newsletter for unusual B2B marketing
strategies experiments SEO case studies
and fresh podcast updates head over to
breaking bb.com and hit that newsletter
tab so join me today I've got Rich Evans
rich is a exited seven figure agency
bootstrap founder he now coaches and
consults with B2B Founders and also
invests into B2B entrepreneurs Rich
welcome to the show sir how are we mate
I'm very well Sam love the enthusiasm as
well so uh all good thanks for thanks
for inviting us on mate no worries
looking forward to the the conversation
we're going be diving into topics
including why so many bootstrap
companies succeed yet a big chunk
fail is chasing funding the right way
for service or or Tech based companies
what makes a great founder and not so
great founder as well as common mistakes
to avoid key considerations as you scale
to five six seven figures and Beyond and
how to maintain healthy profit margins
as I know you did with your last agency
Rich so with that
said why is it that so many bootstrap
companies
fail and so many so many B2B folks start
businesses and yet fail to see them
through or fail to get where they
originally
planned good question to sat mate and uh
I'm sure there's a lot of different
reasons and we were speaking before in
terms of maybe some of the answers to
some of these questions all I can speak
from his experience and and what I've
seen in the market place as well so in
terms
of look bootstrapping a compan is
[__] tough as we all know um well we
all know who who are boot trapping a
company um and why do so many fail it's
a good Duty question to to start with um
so cheers for
that um
in I think there's it depends how you
look at failure and success so we can
look at failure in terms of out and out
bankruptcy or we can look at failure in
terms of companies not getting where the
originally andys to get to I suppose
um potentially might not be failure it
might be a pivot in terms of what they
realized that what they actually wanted
um but
I'd say the likelihood is
that the majority probably don't know
what they're getting themselves into
initially um so entrepreneurship is very
glorified um in the day and age of
Instagram Tik Tok and all the rest of it
um it's sometimes made to look
easy um from a few people out there um
so I think look it's it's really
glorified and it's not it's not for
everyone um being a founder and being an
entrepreneur is is is certainly not for
everyone in in my opinion however um I
think a lot of people are sold a dream
um and in answer to your question I
think there's a lot of surprise he
becoming a a firsttime Founder um so a
chap that I've supported recently
invested in um and helped out and
consulted
with I remember him saying to me Rich
you told me this was going to be
hard but you didn't tell me I literally
had to be like a a fullon athlete to
survive to get the stuff done um so I
think it comes a little bit of a shock
to to a lot of people particularly when
you star in Solo you boot strapping and
then all of a sudden look a lot of us
have got kids at home the rest of life's
pressures and all the rest of it where
we might have the information and the
playbooks and everything else like in
terms of how to grow a business nowadays
like a lot of the information's there
some of it good some of it not so good
however it's implementing it and doing
it consistently and that can take its
[__] toll not just from inside the
business but also outside the the
business as well um so i' take a a stop
at that question um and answer it
with probably looking after person
performance and understanding that it's
going to be [__] tough and you're
going to have to turn up you're going to
take a lot of rejection you're going to
have to face a lot of setbacks and and
look a lot of people start a business
when they've been working in maybe a
sales environment so they used to a
certain level of rejection and building
up resilience and and all the rest of it
but it's a different game when you've
got kids to feed and mortgages to pay
and and also you kind of own ego to look
after as well like we all start we all
start I'm going to grow this business
I'm doing this it's going to be [__]
amazing and and everything else um and
then the reality kicks in and and
there's there's a hell of a lot of stake
isn't they so I think uh sometimes it's
a bit of a a staying game as well um the
other big thing that I'd say as well
is I I don't think I've ever started a
business Sam where it looks anything
like I originally planned it to look
like and a lot of people focus on
creating a a huge business plan at the
start that's really fixed and this is
exactly how we're going to do it in year
one and year two is going to look like
this and year three is going to look
like this um which is crazy like it's
crazy that a lot of people ask for that
a lot of investors look for that level
of detail and all that type of stuff um
but I genuinely believe look we can have
a we can have a vision we can have an
idea we can take things to the market
but we ultimately know what the product
is going to look like more once we've
taken it to the market and everyone's
told us no and what they actually want
so I believe people who were I supposed
rigid initially tend to struggle and
sometimes can be rigid for too long and
don't listen to the market don't take
that market feedback and then pivot
along the way so I suppose a couple of
things there that probably don't come as
a surprise um but certainly if I'm if
I'm working with someone who's starting
out and if I'm putting money in as as
well the the they're probably the two
places that I would prepare them for
like be prepared for the journey buckle
up um and if this scares you in a in a
negative way then we may should maybe
rethinking this um and number two um be
PR be prepared to change change a lot
experiment experimenting your approach
experiment your own product your own
service offering and all the rest of it
um and I think if you're willing to run
as as many experiments as possible then
you can have the best chance of of
succeeding essentially um I've seen that
through building businesses myself but
also people who I support the ones who
are willing to do that more tend to tend
to get further ahead and and quicker as
well so quite a quite a long- winded
answer to your question but it's a
really good question Sam so um
appreciate you starting with a with a
good thinking one as well mate yeah yeah
so in short it's nice and easy it's
[__] hard and you've got to be an
athlete or get
out yeah yeah analogy by the way yeah
but a mental athlete like it seriously
got to be like a mental athlete in this
game um and whatever that means to you
as well so a lot of that I I talk about
is you you've kind of got to build your
own what I used to describe it as like
to staff and the rest of it like your
own mental toolbox and that and that's
different for everyone like for some
people it might be walking the dog for
others it might be yeah jumping in ice
baths at 4 o'clock in the morning that
everyone pitches on LinkedIn and all the
rest of it and I think it's each to
their own and what works for you um but
Ian da was on to
something bounce back ability is I think
he's one of the number one traits that
you can have in a in a Founder in an
entrepreneur um because you're going to
get knocked down so the ability to uh
keep bouncing back I think is probably
the number one trait I'd say
yeah yeah yeah can can relate massively
to to a lot of that stuff and definitely
want to dive into experiments I think
you and I have got a very similar
mindset on that in fact we recently
released an episode on breaking B2B two
or three weeks back on seven or eight of
the the experiments that I've ran so far
seven months into the company so perhaps
we can jam on that in a second your
mindset and what you encourage folks to
do in the B2B space on that front but
yeah I really like that athlete me
mentality example and you're you're
exactly right I mean just before we hit
record I was telling you that we had a
few clients I thought I was going to
sign last week I was on a proper Downer
Friday came back in Monday had three
book calls so I was on an upper so it
really is it really is a roller coaster
and like you say if you can't if you
can't take that mindset of you will have
great days you'll have absolutely
terrible days and worse and at the same
time if you can't be especially from a
bootstrap I can't speak from a funded
mindset but from a bootstrap
mindset you have to be able to change
and adapt think on your feet and
understand that it's never going to go
how you planned like very very rarely
will will things go whe you're running
an agency a SAS business Whatever It Is
there going to be obstacles and stuff
that you don't expect to come in cash
flow issues and more so um yeah love
that love that with that said is there
anything else you touched on a few
points but but for folks that perhaps
some B2B marketers or aspiring Founders
tuning in is there anything else they
should prep for to know if they're ready
to take the
leap
um I think a
lot a lot can be said about seriously
having a look in the
mirror um and asking yourself that I
mean in terms of starting up on your own
is is asking yourself those those deep
questions because and also looking
firstly at your own personal goals um so
it's okay to say look I want to build a
business I want to build a real business
I want to hit seven figures P us I want
staff I want x y and Zed and all all the
rest of it which which a lot of people
if I still have first have a
conversation with them and I'm talking
to them about the business goals will
will'll say all that typical stuff but
then if you start digging into the
personal goals and what they want out of
the personal life um which is
fundamentally why we should all be doing
it as well that's where we should be
starting um
they just don't align they don't align
at all and I think it's easy to think
right I'm going to start a business and
then completely go with your eyes closed
and and a lot of people
will um make it work and also maybe go
go at a pace where it's like okay well
I've got some working so now I need to
hire now I've hired I need to get some
more working okay now we need to hire
again now we need to get some more
working and literally just go
blindfolded in that direction um and
that's not right for everyone either um
and it's about I think really
understanding what you want and that
will change it'll definitely change um
along the time and and and making sure
you constantly having that word with
yourself relying on coaches mentors
Partners to to make sure you're asking
the real questions because there's
nothing worse than actually moving at
PACE somewhere but understanding the
satnav has been set in slightly the
wrong direction as well um positively or
or negatively as well so um I think my
advice to to people if they were looking
to start on their own for the first time
or even to go again with a new business
whatever it is to make a change is
really really get deep on like what you
actually want um what's best for you
what's best for your family um and
really align on that Vision first and
foremost um because what's part in
[__] building something if it's if
it's if it's not in the direction you
want it to go and it's not fulfilling
you as well um financially personally
and all the rest of it are you of the
mindset that if anyone wants to start a
B2B company so a lot of folks give the
advice that it should be perhaps
something similar to what you're doing
already so maybe you take on some
freelance clients on the side or what I
did in my case was probably a prime
example I did some Consulting on the
side and eventually grew that into a
business like I was a part owner in my
last agency that didn't work out for
various reasons started up breaking be
to be seven months ago at the time of
recording but before that I was doing
kind of some Consulting and stuff like
that building up some cash reserves and
then eventually fired up fired up this
organization is that is that the smart
move or is there is there other other
roots that that you should
take yeah I'm smiling
there again just looking back at a
couple of previous experiences so um
yeah the the agency that I built started
built and exited I'd never worked in
that industry or delivered that thing
ever in my life um so we did branding we
did
websites
um and I'd never built a website sold a
website done any branding prior to
starting that business so the the answer
to your question might be yes that's the
most smart thing to do but I didn't do
that for that business I ultimately
wanted with one of my previous
businesses I had a recruitment business
um and which is someone else has got now
um but I was on the market for Well we'd
had a couple of website suppliers um
that was looking for a new one and was
really struggling um and I thought it
was a gap in the market
um maybe a young naive Maverick at the
time um but thought well I can sell
websites because there's a massive need
there and all I need to do then is get
someone to build them and then we're off
um so that was in an industry that yeah
I I'd never had experience in but I was
ultimately the customer which really
helped yeah yeah yeah you're in the
exactly like I understood the pain
points like so I could resonate more
with the customer than actually on the
flip side so that I suppose that's
another angle to look at things um and
again like one of the one of the
businesses that I'm involved in now the
founder
was uh an engineer by trade um had his
own challenges with recruiting people
and talent and all the rest of it when
he was an engineer um he was actually
looking and this comes into the pivot
side of things as well I'm sure Paul
won't mind me saying this but his
business model at first was was was not
to build a recruitment agency he was
looking at more of a of a coaching angle
and and and all that type of thing um
Paul had never worked in recruitment
never set up a business before never
done any sales before never done any
marketing before literally a blank
canvas but he knew there was a problem
there we just needed to work out what
the best way was to solve that problem
um and he's gone on in I think he's
about 14 15 months in now and done done
remarkably well from a standing start as
well so um yeah good it's one of those
like there's no right way or wrong way
is there but I think fundamentally like
the do we have to work in do we work as
a technician as Michael Geral would put
it in the emth and then and then go on
and do our own thing self-employed and
build it up from there yeah that's one
way but I actually believe there's
probably a lot of advantages to maybe my
story and Paul story that if you're
experiencing the problem you're probably
quite a good fit to to work out a
solution to the problem particularly
when it comes to marketing the solution
as well then what do we talk about in
marketing all the time like you need to
resonate with the audience you need to
understand the audience you need to be
able to speak on their level and kind of
if if you were the customer before or
the person with a problem and that that
shortcuts are a little bit I
suppose yeah yeah yeah big time Big Time
I mean like you say if you if you know
the industry already and You' you've
Hands-On experienced the frustration
yourself and if you're almost building a
painkiller to that with your
solution it's like there's this this has
got to be worth a try because I I've
experienced it and I've spoken to others
that are experiencing it like this offer
needs to needs to be out there so why
not test it yeah then I think that's it
is it like we can build the rest we can
build the processes to the solution we
can build the right team and and all the
rest of it as we get stuck into it so um
I think as long as you've ultimately for
me particularly with a bootstrap
business as well um like the Founder's
main job is is sales is marketing um and
I think the maybe some of the
disadvantages if let's
say I'm an accountant so I want to start
an accountancy practice you're good at
doing the thing that you're selling but
you're potentially not that good at the
sales side the marketing side and all
the rest of it yet you might be a
designer that then goes and starts a
design Agency for instance where
actually yeah I think that can
you you tend to see a lot of those
businesses yeah not move to where they
want to be because they might focus on
winning some work but then they're
delivering the work winning some work
and then they're delivering the work so
it's like feast and fing feast and
faming um which is very typical isn't it
for for a startup business it's like
we're drowning in work okay now we're
busy delivering it um and then all of a
sudden you delivered the work and you
you your pipeline shy so um yeah there's
pros and cons to both certainly isn't
they but um personally I think probably
another tip if someone sat there
thinking am I going to start my own
business is like yeah get good at sales
and marketing um and be willing to do
the Reps when it comes to sales and
marketing and run those experiments
because fundamentally um if there's no
cash then we're
done yeah yeah yeah it's a good
point you tired of competitors ranking
above you on Google Ste in traffic leads
and mind share from dream clients every
time they're searching for your services
or authors on Google breaking B2B we fix
that with our unusual approach to SEO
content marketing and websites we craft
B2B SEO strategies and websites for
Revenue not vanity head over to Breaking
B2B decom to check our results pricing
or to book a call with me
with that
said I think I already know your answer
but especially in the in the tech space
and the SAS space so many
Founders want to seek out funding to
almost prove that their concept is going
to work to get that backing to get that
cash to then invest a turn into product
marketing scaling the team growing and
Beyond do you think that is do you think
there are positives to that I'm I think
you and I will probably be both both
biased towards the bootstrap way but I'd
like to know your thoughts there yeah
and and listen I'll only I can only
answer questions that I've got personal
experience in and building a tech
business so we're talking about SAS is
is is not something I I've done yeah I
suppose with my previous agency we built
some tech and we had some SAS agreements
and all the rest of it but we weren't an
out and out SAS business
um
so ultimately I can't say right right or
wrong look certain Tech and SAS needs
money and if you haven't got it you're
going to have to fund it somewhere um I
think the the C and there's a difference
between raising a little bit of
investment to see you through the first
year in terms of like salary expenses
and all that type of stuff and then
raising shitloads that
is going to be a struggle to pay off and
and get positive cash flow on um so I
think there's some differences in terms
of light styles of funding as well um
but I can't really comment on the tech
World um because that's not a game that
I've played out and out um so it' be
wrong of me to try and try and throw an
answer at that I think when it comes to
um look the the service world look we
can get cash flowing a a bit like the J
curves not as deep um because we're not
waiting for the product to be built and
developed and all the rest of it which
we can get out there off for our
services and start selling and start
making money now again um I don't want
to answer this in terms of well I did it
this way so that's the right way like I
started i' I think I've been
self-employed and being an entrepreneur
for 11 12 years so I started at a time
where I had no kids at the time had no
mortgage at the time I was mid 20s I
think I was 25 um so my situation is
very different to other people um I
could
literally get started with some
commission from my previous business um
and get going and hopefully that lasted
long enough for me to uh yeah to start
cash flowing which luckily it was um so
that's a bit of a different scenario
whereas most people have got mortgages
who've got kids have' got yeah more
responsibilities than I had so I think
in terms of if if you're starting up in
the B2B service world and and the rest
of it yeah I think getting a little bit
I mean I invest in people that way as
well getting a little bit of cash to
cover the first year expenses cover your
salary make sure your kids can eat and
also I think what's really important as
well is is taking that Financial strain
away because if we've got that Financial
strain in the first year then we need
heads space to build a business and if
you're worried every two minutes about
money um then that's going to take heads
space away which that energy should be
used elsewhere in business as well so
suppose there's different ways to answer
that question but it's very dependent on
on the on the personal situation um but
I don't believe in I suppose service
businesses trying to raise like yeah
hundreds and hundreds of thousands um
because it's a bit like a business that
exists to make money not borrow money
and if you're not cash flowing within
six to 12 months in a in a service
business then you're probably in the
wrong game I'd say yeah yeah yeah did
did do you think some Founders are not
cut out to sell but can still grow a
business on a bootstrap
basis yeah another good question
um I think it's a massive Advantage if
you can sell um and I'm not saying it
can't be done the other way around
however you're going to have to sell
something particularly if you bootstraps
and you're on your own um so you not
might not be amazing at sales and Market
in but we're going to have to sell
something so we can afford for someone
else to do it to Outsource it to get
someone else in so um personally I think
it's a massive challenge unless you're
willing to get stuck into that side of
things um and I don't believe in the the
like I don't think people are natural at
sales and marketing and and the rest of
it I think I think it can all it can all
be learned and we can all get get better
um so it's not one of those yeah you
might not like it as much as an next
person but it can it can certainly be
learned it certainly can this for anyone
that's not a longtime listener or viewer
of this podcast when I started it over
four years ago now before we fine-tuned
it and Leash down to B2B marketing
initially I first interviewed
entrepreneurs but sales leaders so I
interviewed a bunch of sales leaders
like John Barrow Benjamin Den the UK's
most hated sales trainer Jeb blunt
literally so Anthony um anino literally
some of the the most well-known sales
writers and practice practitioners
selfishly so I could learn what they do
I literally asked them exactly what I
wanted to know what was going on with me
at the time because at the time I was
selling for a B2B service based
agency what better way to do it than
straight from the people I mean you
don't have to do what I did you could
just watch episodes on it or watch
podcasts or listen to audio books or
read books but the I suppose the main
take is find out the people that have
actually been where you want to go and
then listen to what they have to say or
read what they have to say and then try
it for yourself and what you'll find I
imagine you're similar this rich is that
some of it will work really well for you
others just completely won't and which
we'll probably get into in a bit of
experiments and sometimes the only way
to learn is to to see what works and
what doesn't in the real world I love
that it's a great strategy you've use
there to get some free onetoone coaching
sessions um but yeah no I I think that's
really good advice um i' I'd probably
add to that as well
um look coaches mentors um getting
around people has has really helped me
on my journey and I certainly don't
think i' I'd progressed and and
potentially got where I needed to be
with without certain people around me um
now I do think there's a key to it as
well I think a lot of people will take
advice from people people that might be
a million miles ahead of them so you've
got your big influences your gurus your
billionaires your do you know what I
mean like the the people who have a
personal brand of like 50 million people
and all the rest of it look yeah some of
their advice might be good but it's a
little bit different for them isn't it
yeah it's it's all right taking sales
and marketing advice from yeah someone
who's got 50 million followers or
whatever um and also it's a case
of I always believe like people should
maybe be just a couple of steps ahead of
you that's all um and also that they've
got a couple of headers uh steps ahead
here fairly recently as well so again
like if if people have I don't know like
made most of their progress in the 80s
and 90s or whatever like some of that's
not going to be relevant in today's age
um in the different world that we live
in so again not completely off the shelf
advice people make their own decisions
and the rest of it but I've always got
the most benefit of getting around and
paying for support and getting mentors
and getting that from people who were a
couple of steps ahead of me um and it's
we we talked about experiments earlier
Sam and that's all it is like all we're
doing is
experiments and if we can get around
people who've run those experiments then
we can skip a few which is
great big time and I suppose the the
kicker behind this is that you've got to
have that mindset that you want to
improve whether that is mindset wise
whether it is selling wise whether it is
marketing wise whether it's another
aspect of your business you've got to be
you've got to put your ego to one side
completely and think yes I'm [__] at
this or yes I'm okay at this I need to
start improving this so I'm going to
seek out or speak to people or join a
network or whatever that action is that
you can take I'm going to take practical
steps to improve this yeah and a lot
that is just saying that I'm not great
at it I need to improve yeah yeah I
think it works on two ways as well mate
actually that's a really good point um
we've all been there as well at
different stages of our journey um the
the most obvious way to let your ego get
in the way is oh well I don't want to be
vulnerable I want to look like I know it
all on the surface level and and not get
help um which yeah he's not a good
position to be in but then you've got
the other side as well that um people
don't their ego get ego might be the
wrong word but I think it's the right
one it can get in the way for asking for
help as well um as in they don't they
don't feel I don't know comfortable
enough to ask for help and and and all
the rest of it or they don't want to put
we sometimes don't want to put ourselves
in a certain room with other people or
connect with certain people because I
don't know there might be a little bit
of what the brand is imposter syndrome
there but it's all normal like it's all
normal we're all human out we so all
those things are normal and I think
sometimes hearing it it's a bit like
yeah actually I can [__] resonate
with that I just need to uh need to be
selfish and get out there and get as
much help as
possible yeah yeah yeah stuff stuff i'
I've certainly faced there's there's no
doubt about that
so moving it forward a
bit when it comes to acquiring our first
few
clients what are some of the marketing
strategies that you advise feel free to
use past examples that you did to grow
your company or perhaps they've Chang
since yeah um probably would change
since but maybe not so much like
ultimately when you're first starting
out you've got no money
um you've got pretty much no evidence
yet um so you haven't got portfolio you
haven't got testimonials you haven't got
case studies and all all that type of
stuff
um you might not have the biggest
following in the world either in terms
of like social media following and all
the rest of it so ultimately I think in
the early days it's about getting your
hands dirty um from what I think a lot
of people shy away from cold Outreach
nowadays um Cold's probably the wrong
words like I I very much see sales as
just pure networking nowadays um and
what I mean by that is going out there
building relationships and having as
many conversations as
possible with people who one day might
buy your
stuff um and making sure you're creating
as many conversations as possible and
and that's also what I feel the role of
marketing plays as well so for me
nowadays I see say I see sales and
marketing as one machine um don't like
to split them up the lines are far too
blurred um for me it's all about Revenue
Generation Um and I believe that
anything that good
anything that's good that happens in
business or life follows a real life
conversation so a lot of people are on
there looking at vanity metrics likes
comments followers and all that type of
stuff um and it's quite rightly so what
a lot of people say is they don't pay
the bills do they um however if they
lead to real life conversations where
we're having quality conversations with
people who one might buy our stuff or
two might tell other people about our
stuff who might then end up buying it
then as many of those conversations as
possible for me is a precursor to to
sales um and it's about generating them
and getting [__] brilliant at
generating them now we could go into
loads of detail here because I'm super
super passionate about it um yes we need
to get busy um we need to get stuck into
that um and I think there's certain ways
where people go wrong with that type of
strategy um and end up repelling the
market a littleit bit as well um yeah
there you go there's a there's a long
answer again to a to a short question
but how I've done it in the past is
ultimately that like getting around
people speaking to people um within your
target market and building relationships
with them one of my biggest customers
um initially um at my old agency um not
one of the biggest customers but one of
my first decent deals um was about to
sign with two of the market leaders at
the time who had loads of evidence and
all the rest of it um and thankfully
they chose us um but they chose us
because we built a relationship and
obviously built up a a level of trust
there rather than having that evidence
and when that evidence comes everything
else gets a lot easier along the way but
you need to earn it first don't you
let's dive into that tactically speaking
for someone that's thinking okay I get I
get the high level overview I need to
build relation ships with like folks
that perhaps fit my ideal client profile
so I don't know as as an example of
breaking B2B that might be marketing
directors at B2B Tech or SAS companies
or demand gen directors as an example
but if someone tuning in I don't know
runs a different style firm maybe they
they sell accounting services like you
say to to B2B companies or maybe they
sell a different type of software to
tech tech leaders whatever yeah from a a
standpoint like how do they how do you
recommend folks go about starting to
build those relationships like what does
that look like yeah fine I think I I do
work with people building sales and
marketing plans um and I typically don't
offer one prescription and and the
reason why I see it a little bit like
being a PT so there's more than one way
to skin the skin the cat and and most
tactics work if if effectively done um
and the PT analogy that I like is look
Sam like if you came to me and I was a
PT which I'm not by the way and said
look I want to lose weight and get lean
and and the rest of it I could say okay
Sam that's cool um I'm going to send you
a a link and on that link is right you
need to go to the gym five times a week
do compound exercises um and you need to
live on rice chicken and broccoli for
the next eight weeks um would that
work
yeah but it wouldn't work for very long
because you'd be like [__] last a day
with me iect exactly exactly um I hate
squatting whatever it is so I think it's
it's important to understand like um
like your own strengths your own
weaknesses um and you also need a belief
in the process and also one that you can
fall in love with as well so there's a
lot of ways to do it so um
however top level
like principles just don't change do
they like bios psychology doesn't change
and and whatever plan that I like to put
into place with people it it follows a
model where it's really simple like if
we need to take someone from not having
a clue who we
are to spending money with
us I believe we need free things and it
typically goes in this order well it's
got to go in this order um number one is
we need the retention in the first
place the next thing we need is the time
and the next thing we need is a money so
it's stripping things back and building
a strategy to get those free things
predictably um whatever tactics that
you're using essentially and building a
plan plan around those fre fundamentals
which sounds super simple which a lot of
the time it
is um it's just a case of making sure
that it's effective for the individual
business the individual market and and
the things that I've mentioned there
because otherwise it's day six and
you're sick of broccoli and you're going
to give in and you're not going to make
any
money yeah we we we spoken to a lot of
marketing leaders that I guess have said
similar stuff really like when it comes
to acquiring the first few
clients keeping it straightforward not
spreading yourself too thin I.E like you
alluded to earlier perhaps looking at
maybe Founders that are literally a 100
steps ahead of you they've already grown
to seven eight nine figures they've got
a ton of followers but they're giving
high level stuff that's just not that
relevant to where you are now or where
you want to get to as your next step and
kind of breaking that down yeah
attention time money love love that I
think that's a real challenge that
you've You' you've hit there as well Sam
to be fair I think a lot of people are
suffering from information overload um
it's easy to be like yeah particularly
we're early days in a business or we've
hit a plateau and we want to grow it and
then all of a sudden we're just getting
like hit left right and Center you
should do this you should not do this
you should do this you should not do
this and you're left there thinking what
what the [__] am I doing um and
ultimately just you might trial that for
a week might trial that for a month and
you just like yeah this is just isn't
working and people are a lot of people
are just lost so I think coming back to
what we saying earlier it's a case of
like finding out who you do trust um and
yeah getting some support and some
guidance if if people are potentially
feeling that way um but yeah I kind of
like for for new business found is now
there's a little bit of empathy there CU
yeah when I when I first started we
didn't have all that you we had some
books to read and all the rest of it but
we weren't just absolutely hit with yeah
just information left right and Center
which I feel can be feel can be
distracting more than anything um and
there's may be a very good business or a
lot of very good business out there that
have hit a plateau or not where they
want to be because they've gone after
that that next shiny object or fomo for
not doing a certain thing
um it's tough isn't it as a Founder I
find myself with those things as well
like for example some of the experiments
who run at baking B2B I'm thinking like
should I try and build a new lead Magnet
or should I do this paid way of getting
folks into my funnel and all this kind
of stuff and I'm like well I'm already
running the podcast I'm already doing
newsletter I'm already posting on
LinkedIn I'm already asking existing CS
for AER we're already delivering on
projects like already doing quite a lot
as well as some cold Outreach and
trialing other experiments that's that's
probably enough for where we are seven
months in and it's like it's very very
easy to see something that's worked for
someone and think I should be doing that
but then sometimes you got to stay T
take a step back and think what's
actually
realistic if you've got historic data
what's historically brought us
profitable clients that we enjoy working
with in the past and then thinking yeah
it wasn't any of that new crazy like
[__] that folks are preaching about
right now yeah at least when you're
looking at your own historical data you
know it's true as well good
point yeah yeah yeah yeah
um so yeah we talked about kind of
acquiring the first first few clients I
do want to get into experiments actually
so talk talk to us a bit more about what
that means from your point of view and
what Founders should
consider yeah I think it's across the
board um I think you can apply it to
every single area of managing yourself
um and also business as well um so what
I mean which area do you want to focus
experiments on Sam because uh yeah I I
genuinely believe that's that's all life
is essentially isn't it it's a load of
experiments we get new data and then we
try and get a little bit sharper in
certain areas um and keep learning um so
yeah any any particular area you want to
direct at what typically we'd keep it to
the marketing and sales engine but if
there's stuff that you think flows in
wide of business and I'm open to discuss
it too yeah magic no that's fine I I
think from a i I've always believed um
that one of
the the big dial shifters that we've got
in sales and marketing is is positioning
essentially um and it all comes down to
how we communicate our value so um
people are say like how what does
positioning even mean rich and I think
it's that simple it's how well can we C
communicate our value to the point where
other people can easily understand it um
and yeah
obviously nowadays A lot of people would
call it offers since uh since obviously
har O's books and all that type of stuff
which um which I like as well um but for
me it's about not just like your paid
offers it's like you're positioning of
everything your business yes your offers
yes your products yes your Solutions the
way that you market and all the rest of
it and for me I think if we get that
right it just makes everything else a
lot easier so um yeah everything needs
reps so there's no point having the best
offer and the best position in the world
but if no one sees it whether it's paid
advertising SEO cold calling DM social
media or whatever like all that stuff
needs doing and it needs reps if we can
get the positioning
right then ultimately we need to do less
of that or we can do the same amount and
get more out of it um now where I think
people go wrong with positioning is not
enough experiments um I think it's not a
a one hit job okay we're working on our
positioning ultimately like I said
earlier on in the in the conversation as
well um not just our car solution needs
experimenting with the way that we
communicate our car solution as well um
and the more experiments we run and the
more effective that becomes then
ultimately sales are marketing and then
the knock on effect business gets a hell
of a lot easier as well um so um I think
that's really important particularly in
the in the early days of a business but
I also think it needs an eye kept on it
at every stage of a business as well um
just to make sure it's sharp because
everyone as we've touched on there Sam
is looking after that new looking for
that new shiny object that new tactic
that new hack and all the rest of it um
whereas actually um if fundamentally we
we concentrate on how well we
communicate then typically we're not
going to need that new fan technology or
new hack because we've got enough people
who understand the the value that we
create essentially um I think another
belief of mind is like whatever business
you're in like you're in the
communication game like externally
internally the whole lot I believe 99%
of problems in business and probably
life again um are caused by poor
communication um and I think yeah
getting our coms right is uh is
important
mate yeah yeah yeah me messaging and
positioning it's it's big we we've had
Specialists on the show talk about it
for at length and I do agree that
certainly like we talked about the early
on in this
episode like tying everything back from
a marketing standpoint to problems as
like you said that's why you started
your recruitment agency because you
faced this problem in your case with
recruitment based websit so you thought
you'd fix that with the with the offer
that you provided
and being able to clearly and
sustin understand like the top two top
three expensive like bleeding neck
frustrations that your dream clients
face on a regular basis that are not
just like minor issues but are like
super painful for them super annoying
super expensive costing them big time
whether that's churn whether that's
headcount whether that's direct revenue
and knowing those folks that actually
have cash to invest in your offer and
then being able to clear clearly in a
one line or so explain exactly what that
problem is the impact of it and like the
root cause and then being able to
position your offer as that solution I
think a lot of Founders could benefit I
think a lot of marketers Founders
sellers could could benefit from from
that exercise I often refer to a book
called Gap selling by Keenan because he
brings up I thing called a problem
identification chart so good just just
listing out like the top three problems
that your most um profitable kind of
enjoyable clients that you work with
kind of what did they come to you to
fix what was the the impact of the of
not fixing it and what was the original
thing that caused it and then being able
to layer that into a message that
clearly shows kind of how you fix it or
the impact not fixing it it's like super
good for ads cold Outreach and
communication sales calls all sorts cont
marketing the whole lot like it the the
first thing like if I'm if I'm working
with someone whether it's consult
or however I'm working with them if
they've got a problem with sales um the
first thing I do is an exercise that
I've called the 2525 exercise um and
it'll be a case of right who's your
customer who exactly are there and then
what we're going to do is we're going to
sit there and we're going to outline 25
problems are facing right
now and then we're going to outline 25
symptoms of those problems and it's a
[__] challenge like it's a real
Challenge and if you put someone on the
spot on that it's like we might get to
one or two in each area um very very
surface level um but it's a tough
exercise and most people won't do it and
they won't do it because you don't get
instant gratification from it it's a
boring exercise it's not like I'm gonna
sit and do this and all of a sudden
we're gonna get all the dopamine hits in
the world um and I advise people to do
it and some people still don't um but
for me like looking at the C the
customer cuz that's all that matter
and then understanding their world not
just from a surface level what they're
feeling what they're thinking what's
keeping on them up at night then looking
at the symptoms of that and there a lot
of people are look yeah I'm struggling
with social media content I'm struggling
what to write I'm struggling how to
Market that but do that exercise and
give it some real time and thought and
also keep it as a dynamic document
because again if we're speaking to
customers all the time we should be
adding to that list and refining that
list um and ultimately um I think that's
the goal dust of a business like get
that we can build everything
else yeah yeah yeah fun fundamentally
it's so useful it impacts like you say
almost all aspects of the business so
yeah good good stuff let's
um talk about maintaining healthy
profits because I was looking at your
business from your LinkedIn page earlier
actually and I think you said it was
about 40% profit margin that you Main
maintained up until exit for the yeah we
we main 35% profit margin yeah um and I
think how do you do that you be an
absolutely tight
yorman but yeah I think I think it's
easy to get ahead of yourself isn't it
once you start earning earning some
revenue and and start spending money on
on things that ultimately aren't needed
um whether that's all of a sudden
getting flash cars or fancy holidays and
and all the rest of it
um it's really easy to get ahead of
yourself so obviously that's really
really basic advice um but also in terms
of making what we should be doing all
the time is increasing the GPA of what
we're offering like and that should
compound as well because the longer
we're in business the more evidence
we're getting like the more case we're
getting so the value of what you're
doing should be should be going up with
that experience as well so we need to be
increasing that while keeping one eye on
on obviously what we're spending as well
um costs expenses um people as well I
think the the people in the culture
thing is is really important because if
you've got people leaving every two
minutes then you're going have to keep
hiring it's going to be expensive and
the the other thing is like if you're
not keeping your people happy in in a
lot of other ways apart from money then
you kind of only USP to get the right
people on board is is paying more than
the ne than the next company and and
that's going to be costly as well so
yeah I'm not a finance director it's all
pretty simple and basic stuff but um
yeah it's it's again easy to get to get
carried away isn't it um once you start
making some
revenues yeah sound straightforward
advice in in terms of as you scale so as
we're moving on a bit so as you scale
five seven six in your case seven
figures are there common bottlenecks
that you see with the folks that you
advise that are in your community and
Beyond are they like ones that always
come up that you see time and
again yeah I think there the typical
pain points of uh of growing a business
and blind spots as well um
so I think
the the first one I'd say is is is
knowing when to grow and when to scale
and when to hire more people um and and
and typically to be honest I think a lot
of the time it's not hiring too quickly
it's hiring too slowly um but you like
you completely get it don't you like
we're not supposed to be confident in
something that we've never done before
and if we've never hired staff for a
team before and all the rest of it like
it's scary like am I the right person to
do it can I do this and all the rest of
it so I think like certain triggers in
terms of getting out of your own way um
and I think the biggest thing is as well
like when you start
you wear all the hats and you carry on
wearing all those hats and you think
okay I'm going to hire someone and give
this give this one out I'm gonna hire
someone else and give this one out but I
think the first first place to start and
and the and the advice that I'd give to
someone um is ultimately working
out where your best fit first and
foremost before you start handing the
Caps out um so we've all got different
skill sets um yes we need to do a little
bit of everything at first we've all got
different personality traits and all the
rest of it but fundamentally looking at
okay it's 12 18 months from now one I'm
good at these tasks and two I enjoy
these tasks they give me
energy that's the things that we should
be concentrating on and then the other
bits that's where we should be
ultimately then looking to build a team
around systems around like Outsource
supplies around or whatever it is once
we've got that cash flow going
um and I think again simple advice like
it like any decent advice normally is um
but we make those mistakes we might hire
because okay well I need more sales I'm
I'm going to hire a salesp person or I
need um a project manager or whatever it
is but fundamentally that like where are
you happy to the point where hopefully
you make yourself pretty redundant but
you G have to play a few roles along the
way big time I think it's definitely a
huge skill to know what you're decent at
and what you're not so good
at like there is the old saying do what
you do best and Outsource the rest but
that doesn't really apply at the start
like you said when you're a bootstrap
founder you've got to wear all the hats
for a certain amount of time until you
can get to a stage be that a certain
Revenue level if you are bootstrapping
and then you can afford to take on
someone that's perhaps hitting the skill
set that that you lack on whether that's
processes probably in my case more
operations would be something that I
might look to hire on and then I suppose
the next thing is is getting them
trained up and making sure they're well
equipped to to hit that and and hit the
task and get the projects done well yeah
I think what you're good at but also
also not missing like what gives you
energy because you've gone through a
process where you've left everything on
the pitch like and you and and that
startup business because what we've said
like you've got no money like you need
to earn money like you've you've gone
through that initial process where
you've just left everything on the pitch
okay the reward is actually now you can
have a job that you
want um and we've got a bit of cash so
we can fill in the gaps there so I think
that's hopefully a little bit of
inspiration for maybe a few people who
doing the hard yards right now as well
like eventually you get to choose your
own job and your own business um but
maybe not so U maybe not so quickly as
sometimes we first expect
anyway good stuff Rich really appreciate
the conversation we have to get you back
on again to cover some ground that we
didn't have a chance to cover this time
but I really enjoyed the chat been very
useful not just for me but I'm sure
plenty of folks tuning in that are maybe
in the early founder stage or perhaps
marketers that are thinking of setting
up on their own sometime soon so really
appreciate the chat with that please do
tell us more about how folks tuning in
can learn more from yourself connect
with you and anything you'd like to
share yeah um LinkedIn um so no
surprises so feel free to uh yeah get in
touch on LinkedIn
um that's about it Sam like really
really enjoyed it appreciate you you're
having me on mate um always enjoy these
type of things so uh yeah hopefully it's
been valuable for for you and your
audience and look look forward to
catching up again soon mate yeah
definitely we'll put put links to Rich's
LinkedIn and his community below and as
always if you did enjoy today's episode
why not enjoy the newsletter that goes
with the show for more unusual B2B
marketing ideas SEO studies experiments
and practical tips over at breaking
bb.com and hit the newsletter tab with
that want to thank you for tuning in
catch you on the next one for more nobs
B2B marketing tips to grow your business
great Revenue catch you soon
[Music]